# Project Overview
The project I proposed was a personality quiz using python code. I was able to complete it though it is not very sophisticated in terms of having lots of questions and making a detailed calculation on actual personality psychology. It is more simple and for fun.

# Project Narrative
In creating this project, I first focused on Milestone 1 by creating my final function and working my way backwards. I wanted to make the function that would be responsible for outputting the user's personality once all the questions were answered. I knew it had to do some sort of calculation and based on that calculation, would print a personality type to the console. I knew I would need to come up with a different personality type based on each calculation, so I decided to make my life easy and only do 5 different personality types. I chose 5 different books to go with the theme of my quiz which is "what classic literature novel are you?" I wanted it to emulate classic internet/magazine personality quizzes like "which spice girl are you?" or "which Avenger are you?" Knowing this, I decided to make the total number of points possible 25 and make each personality have a range of 5 points because I wanted it to be flexible in case people are chosing all kinds of numbers between 1 and 5 for each question. In order to conceptualize this, I commented my thought process on the document like so:
1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 5 = p1
    2 + 2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 10 = p2
    3 + 3 + 3 + 3 + 3 = 15 = p3
    4 + 4 + 4 + 4 + 4 = 20 = p4
    5 + 5 + 5 + 5 + 5 = 25 = p5

if personalityType < 10 = p1
    if personalityType < 15 = p2
    if personalityType < 20 = p3
    if personalityType < 25 = p4
    if personalityType == 25 = p5
My logic was that people that are more likely to chose the first and second answers equal to 1 and 2 points are more likely to be personality 1 whereas people who are more likely to choose the last answer equal to 5 points are more likely to be personality 5 (same for each type in between). But by making it a range instead of a hard number, there is more wiggle room for people who won't just choose the same answer each time. Next I focused on Milestone 2, knowing that it was time to create the questions that would then give the user points depending on their answer. I knew I needed interesting questions, a way to keep track of a user's points as well as update their points after each answer, a way to prompt users to answer the question, a way to tell if the user puts an invalid answer, a way to prompt them again after an invalid entry, and a way to display each question after a valid answer to keep the quiz going. I started by printing the quiz title to the console so users know what the program is (take my personality quiz!) then creating a variable equal to zero that will store their score and be reused continously later on to hold added points. I wrote a function that would deem any numbers higher than 5 or lower than 1 to be a "bad number." I then coded 5 sets of questions that will be printed to the console followed by while-loops in cascading order. Each set includes a unique personality question to answer and will prompt the user to answer the question by typing a number from 1 to 5 while also letting the user know which answer correlates to which number. Their answer gets recorded in a variable called "res" which will then get passed into my bad number function and if it meets the conditions of being an invalid answer, will prompt the user to answer the question again. If it does not meet the conditions then it will add the score stored in res to our variable response number created in the beginning of the code and move onto the next question. Once the user answers the last question, it will trigger my answer function that I created for Milestone 1. I did have to make some changes to what I did in Milestone 1. I put all of the final personality types into a list called personality string and then passed this list into my answer function. I also restructured my answer function to be in the form of elifs so that when my response number gets passed into the answer function, it will be compared to the range of numbers associated with each personality string and display the final personality type to the console by calling the answer function at the end. If I was to approach the project again I would maybe take my time and come up with more psychological reasoning for why each answer correlates to a specific personality type.

# Learning Targets
As far as practical learning targets, I would say my project satisfies an understanding of the concepts learned in class including Variables and their types, Loops, Conditional Logic, Functions including arguments and return values, Git and version control, and Basic Python syntax and keywords. I would say my project also demonstrates understanding of broader concepts. I demonstrate understanding of why we comment our code and what makes an effective comment via the use of comments in my project that explain what each section of the program is doing and why. This is essential when having code reviewed or working with other developers so they understand what's going on and won't risk making mistakes due to confusing code. My project demonstrates an understanding of the structuring and planning of a programming project because it took abstract conceptualizing to understand what it is I wanted to do and how I was going to do it. By working backwards, I was able to effectively plan my project to completion. I also show an understanding of code being culturally situated and containing or replicating particular values through the concept of the quiz itself. I wanted to emulate simple programs that were popular during the earlier days of the internet as a milennial who would engage with said programs all of the time. And I understand that in chosing the questions and answers and typing the entire program in English, I as a programmer am biased and my biases are shown in my code, knowing that this could very well not be understood or seen as cool by a large portion of the planet. Finally, I demonstrate an understanding of the potential of code to create art or engage with humanistic inquiry also through the concept itself. I took my inspiration from other coding projects we discussed in class throughout the semester that required user input to make something cool and fun and change depending on said input. I wanted to make something that felt almost alive in its ability to calulate behind the scenes and also ask relevant questions to the user, creating this 2 way channel of communication with a computer that could make a judgement on you at the end. By focusing on these learning targets I was able to create a python personality quiz that was simple and fun and complete.